Welcome to Moviecaps.
Today I will show you a Drama
film from 2017, titled Gifted.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Frank Adler is telling his niece,
Mary, to get ready for school.
He tells her that he is making her a special
breakfast. Mary is reluctant and brings up excuses
like who will look after her monocular cat,
Fred. Frank tells her that Fred will be alright.
She asks for the special breakfast
she was told about and Frank just
shows her a box of Kellogg’s cereal with
special written on it, to her dismay.
Frank sees her off at the bus stand, where Mary
proceeds to go to school for the first time.
Roberta, who is Frank’s neighbour, follows him
back to his house. She expresses her concern
regarding Mary attending school. She thinks
something may happen to her. Frank looks nervous.
Later, Mary is at school and looks
like she'd rather be anywhere but here.
Her teacher, Bonnie, wanders around the class
asking the children simple math problems.
Mary looks at her and the rest of the
class with disdain, as she thinks Bonnie’s
questions are simple. Teacher starts asking Mary
comparatively complex questions. Mary answers them
easily. As the questions get more difficult,
particularly when reaching multiplication,
Mary hesitates for a bit, which Bonnie takes as
her cue to stop. After a few moments of silence,
Mary answers the multiplication question
correctly. Bonnie grabs the calculator to check,
it’s correct. She feels perplexed and
knows that Mary isn’t just a regular kid.
The principal, Miss Davis is introduced to
the first graders. The class treats her with
respect. Mary behaves rather casually and yells
at Davis and Bonnie to call Frank and tell him to
get her out of here. Later that day, Frank shows
up to pick up Mary. Bonnie has a word with him.
She tries to make him realize
that Mary isn’t an ordinary child.
Frank waves her off, telling her it’s just the
Jakow Trachtenberg method which Mary used to
calculate the math questions which Bonnie asked
in class. Bonnie says Mary is only seven, to which
Frank responds that he learned the same method
when he was eight, meaning it isn’t a big deal.
Bonnie later searches up the Jakow Trachtenberg
method and looks into it, feeling quite impressed.
Frank is working on a boat. Mary asks him
if they can take the boat for a test drive.
They spend time together at the beach.
They converse about different things,
and Frank tells Mary that her mother
would want her to make friends.
Mary brings Fred to school and
shows him to her classmates.
She tells them he has only one eye. The kids ask
her, how did he lose his eye? Mary responds saying
she doesn't know about that because she found him
like this in the trash and in a way, rescued him.
Bonnie grows closer to Mary. She hands her
additional homework, knowing she’d finish her work
quicker than most students. Mary smiles at Bonnie
and Bonnie returns her smile with an affectionate
one of her own. They bond well in class.
Bonnie searches more about the Adler family,
first looking into Frank Adler’s details, but
her search does not yield any fruitful results.
She ends up reading about Frank’s sister Diane
Adler. Diane is a child prodigy, excellent at
mathematics. MIT professor, Seymour Shankland,
calls her exceptional, saying she has an exquisite
mind, a mind that could help the world. As Bonnie
reads further, she finds out that Diane ended
herself aged twenty-seven. She left behind a
daughter named Mary with her brother, Frank.
Bonnie shows up to meet Frank at their local bar,
Ferg. Frank opens up to her. He tells her that he
was running late for a date when Diane showed
up unannounced at his place with a baby Mary.
She told Frank she needed to talk to him. Frank
dismissed her saying he’ll listen to her when he’s
back from his date. That night, when he returned
home he found Mary on the couch and Diane on the
bathroom floor. Though it isn’t entirely his
fault, he still thinks he should’ve known.
Bonnie asks about any other family members. Frank
replies that Mary's biological father didn't last
a month, he abandoned Diane. His mother is
very strict, she is an uncompromising woman,
British through and through.
Mary is on the bus to school. She
notices her classmate climbing the bus, holding a
well-made project. She feels concerned at first,
thinking that her project isn’t good enough.
The little boy is trying to make his way.
A twelve-year-old bullies him, making
the poor boy trip and break his work.
The bully along with the rest of the kids
start laughing and teasing him. Mary comes
to his rescue and tells the kids to stop it.
She hits the bully in the face with a book.
Frank is later walking into Mary’s
school as he passes by the bully,
who is bleeding from his nose. He immediately
checks up on Mary, making sure that she’s alright.
The principal, Davis, makes Frank understand that
beating people up isn’t allowed, Frank tells her
that he’ll make sure Mary understands that,
though he is proud of her for standing up to a
bully. Principal says she would like to have Mary
study at the Oaks Academy for Gifted Education,
where she can be educated at a
level that matches her capabilities.
Frank brings up financial concerns. She guarantees
a full-ride scholarship for Mary. Frank turns the
offer down, saying that Mary should be treated
like a normal kid and sent to a regular school.
Bonnie asks him if he is sure about his
decision, to which he says he doesn’t know.
Mary apologizes to her
classmates for her behaviour.
She and the rest of the class applaud
Justin, the little boy who is her classmate,
telling him that his zoo was the best art project.
Frank and Mary reach home to find her grandmother,
Evelyn waiting at their doorstep. Evelyn
brings her a fancy laptop with a book
about advanced algebra by Charles Zimmer.
Mary tells her with disinterest that she
has already read the book and is now covering
differential equations. Frank makes her thank
Evelyn. Evelyn is not satisfied with Frank’s
living conditions and calls him out for it.
Frank and Evelyn meet for lunch. She says
she is concerned for Mary and wants her to
live in a better environment. She warns
Frank that authorities will be involved.
Frank tells her that Diane would not want
her to have custody of Mary. Evelyn calls
Mary's mother Diane and Frank weak. She subtly
tells him that this matter is going to court.
Frank and Mary hang out together, she
asks him questions about God and faith.
He says he has his own opinion, which could be
wrong, so he does not have the right to spoil
her opinion. Mary mentions Roberta. He says that
Roberta has faith and she loves her very much.
He tells her that he knows that everyone will end
up together and that's what matters in the end.
Roberta proves that she cares deeply for them by
appearing in court to assist Frank in obtaining
custody of Mary against his mother. It becomes
clear that Evelyn plans to take Mary with her to
Massachusetts. Frank wants her to stay with him.
Later, Frank asks Roberta to watch Mary for the
night. Roberta agrees, mentioning that
she is just a neighbour and not a blood
relative or someone whose opinion would
be valued, but she loves Mary very much.
Mary spends the night at Roberta's,
singing with her and having a great time.
Bonnie and Frank meet at the bar. She explains to
him that it was not her who leaked the information
to Davis. They get closer over drinks and have
interesting conversations. Bonnie tells him that
she can not afford to be intimate with him,
but eventually they spend the night together.
Mary is searching for a DVD at Frank's
place. She finds Bonnie sneaking out
of Frank's room and gets cheeky about
it. Frank finds out about this and gets
frustrated saying he can't have his own life
for even some time. She gets upset and leaves.
Later, Frank apologizes to
Mary and they reconcile.
Roberta is slamming Frank for his irresponsible
behaviour, as he checks his mail outside and
finds out that Mary is going to be spending
two days in Boston with her grandmother.
When Mary visits Boston with her
grandmother. She sees family photos,
including pictures of her mother
and grandmother when she was young.
Back in Florida, Bonnie and
Frank become even closer.
Evelyn takes Mary to university and tells her
about the Seven Millennium Problems. Mary is
shown a picture of Grigori Perelman who worked
on the Poincare Conjecture. Evelyn reminisces how
Diane could have also been honoured and had her
picture up on the wall if she had finished solving
the Navier Stokes equation. Mary expresses her
wish to be featured on the wall someday as well.
She is handed a difficult equation to solve by
professor Shankland. After noticing that she is
unable to solve it for quite some time, he tells
Evelyn maybe Mary isn’t that capable after all.
Evelyn is walking furiously with her,
regretting coming to Shankland in the
first place when Mary tells her that the
equation was wrong and hence, unsolvable.
They head back to Shankland and the equation is
corrected by Mary. She solves it till the end,
leaving Shankland feeling overwhelmed.
When they are back home, Mary tells Frank
that although Evelyn is nice, she does not want
to live with her. He promises her that she will
not go anywhere. Mary meets a social worker (Pat),
who asks her different questions about her life.
Mary mentions watching ultimate fighting
with Frank. She also tells her that he
promised to keep her around and that he’s a
good guy. Pat asks her why she thinks that,
to which she responds that Frank wanted her since
the beginning, irrespective of her smartness.
Mary’s biological father is brought to court.
He wants Evelyn to have Mary’s custody. Mary’s
father is embarrassed by Frank’s attorney, who
makes him realize that he doesn’t even know his
daughter’s middle name and he has never seen her
in real life. Frank wins this round in court.
He walks her to her car. She tells him that
she doesn’t like being at odds with her son.
Frank says they’ve always been at odds.
Mary locks herself and cries hysterically because
her deadbeat father does not come to see her while
he is in town. Later Frank drives to the hospital
with Mary and Roberta. They wait together for the
birth of a baby boy. Frank tells Mary that she was
born just like this and that everyone was ecstatic
about her birth. He tells her that he broke the
news of Mary’s birth to everyone. Mary celebrates
happily with the families in the hospital.
Later, when Evelyn testifies in court. Frank’s
attorney notices her reference towards baseball.
He and Evelyn engage in a heated discussion
regarding Diane never being allowed to do
anything except for studying mathematics. She
never played sports or lived a normal life.
Frank’s attorney mentions Paul, Diane’s first
love at seventeen. Paul and Diane ran away to
a resort in Vermont for skiing. He antagonizes
Evelyn for filing a lawsuit against him, pressing
kidnapping charges and making Diane distraught
leading to her attempted self-killing in 1999.
Evelyn insists that it was nothing major and that
she tried her best to be a good mother to Diane.
Frank testifies and says he is
a freelancer, he repairs boats.
Evelyn’s attorney brings up concerns regarding
Mary’s healthcare, education, and life. Frank
insists that he wants her to live like a normal
kid. The attorney also brings up how Mary
assaulted the kid bully in school and how he once
assaulted a man. Frank says it was self-defence
against a drunk man in a bar and admits spending
a night in jail because of the incident.
Later that evening, Frank’s attorney suggests
handing Mary over to a foster family temporarily.
When she turns twelve, she can make a decision
in court regarding her living situation.
The foster family resides in Tampa. Frank can
visit her easily as it’s only thirty minutes away.
Evelyn would get visiting rights
too. Feeling out of options,
he sends Mary off to live in Tampa. She
doesn’t take it easy, she cries and begs
Frank not to leave her alone, reminding
him that he promised he wouldn’t leave her.
Roberta and Frank grieve over Mary’s absence.
Later, Frank tells Bonnie that he thought
about handing Mary over to child services
many times but could never let her go.
He blames himself for the mess.
He tries to visit Mary but is told
by the foster father that she doesn’t want to see
him. Frank is heartbroken. Roberta comforts him.
Bonnie notices a poster of adoptable pets with
Fred’s picture on it. She sends it to Frank,
who frantically drives over to Animal Services and
manages to save Fred along with two other cats.
Evelyn is the one who put Fred up
for adoption in the first place.
Frank and Roberta rush to visit Mary and
succeed in getting her back when Frank shows
Evelyn the documents proving that Diane did in
fact, finish the proof for the Navier Stokes
equation. He tells Evelyn that Diane wanted
this to be published after her mother’s death.
Meaning Evelyn did suppress Diane's wishes.
Frank and Mary end up reconciling and are
more than happy to be together
as they drive off with Roberta.
Evelyn looks at the tear-stained notes with
doodles sketched on them and starts crying.
She calls MIT and gets in contact with Shankland.
Mary attends university, after which Frank picks
her up. They talk in the car. He hands her
a book by René Descartes about existence.
She jokes with him about it. Frank drops her
off at the park where she joins other girl
scouts and plays with them happily. Frank
smiles warmly in the distance at Bonnie.
The End.
Thank you
for watching! Subscribe if you'd
like to see more videos like this.